Overloading is a type of polymorphism that allows us to pass different arguments
to the same function name and
have different implementations of that function that respond to the different arguments.
So let's imagine that we have a class human,
and let's say that this class human has
a condition and the condition will default to happy.
We can say human David and we can
assert that david.condition equals happy,
we need to make this a public member
variable and
if we pile this,
we need to include string.
Now if we run this David is happy, everything's great.
Now, let's say that we have a function drink.
So void drink and let's say we can drink water.
If we drink water,
then our condition becomes hydrated, and so now,
if we have david.drinkwater,
we should be able to assert that David's condition is hydrated.
Now of course one thing we haven't done here is create a class water,
so we're going to have to do that,
a class water and this class isn't actually going to do anything.
It's just going to allow us to have David drink water,
and we'll create the water inside the function argument actually.
So let's compile this,
we have two semicolon after a class.
Let's create an object that way,
and now, David is drinking water and my condition is hydrated.
I say me because my name is David.
But now we're finally going to get to the overloading.
So far we've just been setting up this class.
Here's where we're actually going to overload the class.
Now let's say that David can drink
alcohol and if I drink alcohol or if a human it's not David,
if the class human can drink alcohol our condition shifts to impaired.
So if we instead of drinking water,
drink alcohol then we want to verify that our condition has shifted to impaired,
let's actually reformat that,
and we haven't created class alcohol just like we created class water.
We're going to have to create class alcohol.
Now we see we've gone from happy to hydrated to
impaired and we've successfully overloaded the drink method.
Let's keep overloading it.
What else can we drink? We can drink coffee,
and if we drink coffee,
our condition will change to alert, and down here,
oh, same problem as before.
We've got to declare a class coffee but now we should be able to compile.
David.alert failed because I cut and pasted and didn't update alcohol.
So we drink water and we're hydrated,
we drink alcohol and we're impaired,
and we drink coffee and then we are alert.
So now this should compile.
What else can we drink? We could drink soda.
I mean, we could keep going all day.
We'll make this one our last one.
If we drink soda,
our condition will become cavities.
I'm going to have to go to the dentist not because I actually
drink that much soda but I guess I didn't brush my teeth enough,
you get that filling in a few days.
So we'll have a class soda and if we will overload the drink function so that if we drink
soda then our condition will become cavities.
Now this is a pretty simplified version of function overloading.
In particular, you'll notice that really all the function or
all the argument type or parameter type
is doing here is allowing us to switch to different versions of the function.
We're not actually using the parameter inside of the function itself.
You could certainly do that.
We could also pass system defined types instead of
user-defined types like the classes we've created.
There are all sorts of ways to do function overloading but this
is an example of how you can use function overloading
to have different versions of a function that behave differently depending
on what type of parameters you set up for the function,
what arguments you pass in.